---
slug: /sdk
---

# Overview

Prometheux Chain is a Python SDK designed to help you create, evolve, and deploy virtual knowledge graphs with ease. The SDK offers the following capabilities:

- Data Ingestion: Seamlessly integrate data from various sources, including databases and files.
- Reasoning & Knowledge Augmentation: Perform logical reasoning to derive new insights and augment your existing knowledge base.
- Explainability: Gain clear explanations of the results generated by the system.

## Features
- Supports a wide range of data sources.
- Built-in reasoning engine for deriving new knowledge.
- Easy-to-understand explanations for enhanced interpretability.
- Ready-to-use configurations for fast deployment.

## Installation

### Requirements
- Python 3.9 or higher

### Install Using pip

1. Set Up a Virtual Environment (recommended):

```bash
python3 -m venv myenv
source myenv/bin/activate  # On Windows: myenv\Scripts\activate
```

2. Install the SDK from GitHub:

```bash
pip install git+https://github.com/prometheuxresearch/prometheux_chain.git
````

### Into Jupyter

To manually install the library in your Jupyter Lab or Jupyter Notebook follow these steps

1. Create a new notebook with kernel Python and run the following commands a dedicated cell 
2. Clone the repo

    ```bash
    !git clone https://github.com/prometheuxresearch/prometheux_chain.git
    ```
3. Navigate into the project and install it

    ```bash
    !cd prometheux_chain && pip install -e .
    ```

4. Copy the project into site-packages to allow importing and using it

    ```
    !cd prometheux_chain && cp -r prometheux_chain /opt/app-root/lib/python3.x/site-packages
    ```

5. Restart the kernel

To update an existing installation of Prometheux Chain follow these steps

1. Uninstall the project

    ```bash
    !pip uninstall prometheux_chain -y
    ```

2. Clone the repo if it is not present

    ```bash
    !git clone https://github.com/prometheuxresearch/prometheux_chain.git
    ```

    else update it to the latest changes

    ```
    !cd prometheux_chain && git pull
    ```

3. Navigate into the project and install it

    ```bash
    !cd prometheux_chain && pip install -e .
    ```

4. Remove an existing installation if present

    ```bash
    !rm -r /opt/app-root/lib/python3.x/site-packages/prometheux_chain
    ```

5. Copy the project into site-packages to allow importing and using it

    ```
    !cd prometheux_chain && cp -r prometheux_chain /opt/app-root/lib/python3.x/site-packages
    ```

6. Restart the kernel